There are variety of use cases
of decorators, and to be honest, you
actually learn about the decorators
as you use them more in Django.
You will be using a ton of them
in libraries like fastapi.
You actually will be
using a lot of them.
But there are certain decorators
that you want to make them on your
own and that's how you learn them.
So in this video we are going
to build a simple logging decorator.
It's a fun exercise.
You, will absolutely love this.
Let me share the screen with you.
So let me take you directly
on the code part.
We don't need any theory for this.
Let's call this one as 02.
This one will be
logging decorator py.
Of course.
So how does a logging decorator work?
It's actually super simple.
The first basic steps
will always remain same.
So we'll always go ahead and say
from, function tools, let's go
ahead and import the wraps.
It should be, oh, my bad.
It should not be
imported, should be from.
All right, good enough.
Now let's just say we want
to call this one as logactvt.
That's the first part of it.
And we'll take import as
a function, call it as func.
Feel free to call it anything else.
And the job one is to take this
wraps and take this function so that
we have all the values preserved.
Then we define our wrapper function.
It doesn't really need to be called
as wrapper, but wrapper makes sense.
So we have the wrapper.
Now here's the interesting part.
This function might also
accept some arguments
or parameters in that case.
So there could be arguments, or
there could be key value
arguments or keyword arguments.
I don't know which one are coming up.
So in that case, what you do is
you take the wrapper and you
simply go ahead and say, hey,
whatever, I don't know the
numbers of it, whatever the
args are coming in, I'll
happily accept that.
I will also go ahead and accept
all the keyword orgs
that are also coming in.
I'll take them as well.
And then I'll just go
ahead and execute you.
I'll return
some interesting stuff as well.
But this function will execute
and will return you the results.
So I'll just go ahead and say,
hey, function, just execute that.
And also make sure you don't forget
to take your parameters.
So I'll just go ahead
and say args just like that.
And I will also go ahead
and say take your keyword args.
There we go.
This is all good.
And finally we go ahead
and say return the result.
And this is what we result here.
And here also we go ahead
and don't worry, I'll show you
the working part as well.
But this is not all it
we have done this.
The job is actually done.
You have seen how the keyword
arguments can be taken because here
you are taking the whole function
along with every detail that
comes up here in the wrapper.
Whatever the values are being passed
on can be actually imported up here.
Because this function actually
has a linking direct.
And when you're calling the function
you're further down the line
passing on these value here.
So super simple, super easy.
But the only thing that we haven't
done is we haven't said which
function is calling and which
function has finished calling.
So just before it calls let's add
a print statement and the print
statements will be a formatter
string which will say calling.
And then we'll use a function name.
So what's our function name?
Super easy.
We can just call this func
dot underscore, underscore name,
underscore, underscore or
in short dunder.
So this function, whatever is
there, it actually comes up.
We simply call that.
Let's go ahead and say this time
this one will be finished.
And our library is
actually interesting one.
So it actually includes some of the.
The tick as well, not rake.
There we go.
So it actually uses a tick
that hey, finished calling
the function and once it
calls let's use another one.
So this one looks good.
So the rocket is actually calling
at least makes it interesting.
So how we're going to use
this, that's interesting.
You simply go ahead
and say logactivity.
That is it.
Now you can define the function.
Let's just say our function is
brewing chai.
You thought we were going
to leave the chai?
No, absolutely not.
And we simply go ahead and pass
on whatever the type we are getting.
Maybe we can pass on more argument.
No problem there.
I will just go ahead and print
with a formatted
statement that says brewing.
Should have written that correctly.
Brewing.
And then whatever the type,
you give me chai.
All right, good enough.
And let's not forget
to call this so brew chai.
And we're going to call masala chai.
All right, pretty interesting.
And hope you have learned something
about this keyword.
This is little bit awkward at first,
but eventually you get the habit
of it that this is how I write it.
Let's go ahead and run this.
This will be Python 3 we'll
be using 02 and there we go.
So notice here any function you
pass on into this one with
whatever the data type it actually
goes ahead and work with that.
So notice here it calls the brewchai
and we have designed a really
pretty custom logging for us.
Now the advantage of this if
I change this one let's just
say instead of the type I
also go ahead and say milk.
The default value is going to be
a simple string that says no
and I can just pass on more
values to it brewing chai and
milk status and then we go
ahead and simply print out the
milk here.
So notice here we have changed the
function without worrying about I
don't really care what my wrapper
does, I just focus on building my
function itself and we simply
accept more parameters now even the
keyword arguments Pretty
interesting isn't it?
This is actually really fun
and this is how in general you
build the loggers in decorator.
Hope you have enjoyed this.
Do rate us and let's catch
up in next video.